# Glossary

## Workflow

A workflow coordinates one or more AIs into a multi-step sequence of AI or
non-AI actions. You have full control over the steps in the workflow, and
whether you define the next steps or whether AIs help define the next steps. It
is the highest level of work that Fixpoint does, but one can chain together
workflows. You can think of a workflow as a dynamically constructed graph of
tasks/steps, although we do not require the user to design this graph like a
state machine. They can just have one task or step call another function.

## Agents

An agent is an
[intelligent agent (IA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intelligent_agent),
although we abuse the terminology slightly so that agents are not necessarily
autonomous. The simplest agent simply calls an underlying LLM, but more complex
agents can call multiple LLMs or autonomously accomplish some task. The
important thing, is that when you pass control to an agent, it is an AI system
that performs some work, and then returns control to your computer program.

## Tasks and Steps

Tasks and steps are two similar concept, but we model them a little differently.
A workflow can be comprised of tasks and/or steps. Steps are the smallest unit
of work, so a task can have multiple steps. Here is the difference: a “task” is
a sequence of one or more steps to accomplish some discrete part of a workflow.
A “step” is the smallest unit of work by which the program steps through a
Fixpoint workflow, and checkpoints each step.

If making a workflow without defining any tasks, the steps within the workflow
roll up to a default "main" task.

## Document

A document is an arbitrary text content. It can be namespaced to a workflow, or
exist outside the workflow. For example, a Form Agent spec could be a document,
and when we create a Form Agent workflow instance we can clone a document from
the Form Agent spec and start filling it out for that workflow.

## Controller

A controller can be thought of a controller (duh) or a manager of other AI
agents and the process for how they work together to accomplish something. It's
a higher level way to compose and coordinate agents.

In some cases, there can be overlap of responsibility between "agents" and
"controllers", but we think of the difference like this: agents are backed by
some AI, and they can take multiple steps, but generally you just ask the agent
to accomplish something and it does it.

Controllers can layer on top of a single agent, or can coordinate multiple
agents, and expose interfaces designed to be controlled by our software systems
or other AIs. They are meta-agents that coordinate or modify the behavior of
other agent(s) and let those agents easily integrate with other software
systems.

In general, there is no uniform interface between controllers.

## Memory

Memory lets an AI agent remember past steps within a workflow. Simple memory
just records all past workflow steps. More advanced memory summarizes and
indexes info from the past steps, recognized groupings and categories, and all
the other things that a human brain could do when we think about “memory”.

There is an overlap between memory of past steps and memorizing or looking up
external info (RAG). For our purposes, RAG can be considered memory if it is
bundled into an agent who is supposed to memorize or look up context.

## Caching

Caching is the method by which we store workflow steps and raw agent inference
interactions to make them durable or power our memory systems.

## Driver

A driver controls and manages some lower-level interface, such as access to
storage or the underlying inference provider for an agent. Compared to a
Controller, a Driver operates at a lower level and is mostly an API adapter,
while a Controller operates at a higher level to coordinate multiple operations
intelligently.

## Workspace

A workspace is a way of grouping AI agents, workflows, and human users so that
different workspaces can operate without having name collisions and while
performing access control.

If authorized, you can refer to agents or workflows in another workspace.

A workspace can have “accounts” from different “organizations”, and can be owned
by one or more organizations.

## Organization

An organization represents a human organization within Fixpoint. This is how we
can segment customer accounts, etc. By default, all workspaces, agents, etc.
within an organization are namespaced to that organization.

## Account

These are the human and service accounts of our system. AKA the “users”.
